README.md, before:

![](https://travis-ci.org/jshayes/fake-requests.svg?branch=master)

# fake-requests
A simple package to make testing with guzzle easier

## Basic usage
You can register expected calls to the `MockHandler`. The mock handler has methods for each http request type.

```PHP
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\MockHandler;
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\ClientFactory;

public function test()
{
    $factory = new ClientFactory();
    $factory->setHandler($mockHandler = new MockHandler());

    $mockHandler->get('/get-request');
    $mockHandler->post('/post-request');

    $factory->make()->get('/get-request');
    $factory->make()->post('/post-request');
}
```

This simple example creates two expectations. The first is a `GET` request with the URL path of `/get-request`. The second is a `POST` request with a URL path of `/post-request`. The client is then resolved out of the factory, and `GET` and `POST` requests are made for each expectation.

The `ClientFactory` can be used to resolve guzzle client instances. You can bind a handler to the factory so that when it resolves the guzzle client it will swap out the default handler with the one that you have specified. It will also keep the registered middleware intact in the case that you are using the `HandlerStack`.

Once an expectation is met, it is removed from the handler. So if you make the same request twice you have to add two separate expectations.

You can also use the following alternative syntax
```PHP
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\MockHandler;
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\ClientFactory;

public function test()
{
    $factory = new ClientFactory();
    $factory->setHandler($mockHandler = new MockHandler());

    $mockHandler->expects('get', '/get-request');
    $mockHandler->expects('post', '/post-request');

    $factory->make()->get('/get-request');
    $factory->make()->post('/post-request');
}
```

This example sets up the same expectations as the example above.

You can also specify hosts in the uri, rather than just the path. This can allow you to ensure the correct service is being hit in the case that you talk to more than one remote service.
```PHP
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\MockHandler;
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\ClientFactory;

public function test()
{
    $factory = new ClientFactory();
    $factory->setHandler($mockHandler = new MockHandler());

    $mockHandler->expects('get', 'https://test.dev/get-request');

    $factory->make()->get('https://test.dev/get-request');
}
```

## Inspecting the request
If you need to make assertions on the request that created, or the options that are provided, you can use the `inspectRequest` method. This method receives an instance of `\Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface` as the first parameter.
```PHP
$mockHandler->get('/test')->inspectRequest(function (RequestInterface $request, array $options) {
    // Make assertions on the request or options here
});
```

Alternatively, you can use the `getRequest` method to get the request off the RequestHandler after it has been handled. This request is an instance of `\JSHayes\FakeRequests\Request`, which is a decorator around the `\Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface`. This decorator exposes a few assertion helper functions.
```PHP
$expectation = $mockHandler->get('/test');
$factory->make()->get('/get-request');
$request = $expectation->getRequest();
$request->assertBodyEquals('');
```

Note that the request is null until one has been handled by the handler.

## Customizing the response
There are a few ways to create a custom response for each expectation. When you create a custom response, that response is what will be returned to the guzzle client when the request expectation is met. The three ways to customize the response are as follows.

The first method is by passing in the parameters for the request. The first parameter is the status code. The second is the body of the response. The third is the array of headers to add to the response.
```PHP
$mockHandler->get('/test')->respondWith(200, 'body', ['header' => 'value]);
```

The second method is by creating a request that implements `\Psr\Http\Message\ResponseInterface`.
```PHP
$mockHandler->get('/test')->respondWith(new Response(200, ['header' => 'value'], 'body'));
```

The third method is by passing a callback to `respondWith`. This callback will receive an instance of `\JSHayes\FakeRequests\ResponseBuilder`
```PHP
$mockHandler->get('/test')->respondWith(function (ResponseBuilder $builder) {
    $builder->status(200);
    $builder->body('body');
    $builder->headers(['header' => 'values']);
});
```

## Controlling when a handler should be handled
If you would like more control over when a RequestHandler handles a given request, you can use the `when` method. This method receives an instance of `\Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface` as the first parameter.

```PHP
$mockHandler->get('/test')->when(function (RequestInterface $request, array $options) {
    return true;
});
```

The handler will only handle the request when the method and uri match, and when the `when` callback returns true.

## Testing with Laravel
This package also comes with a trait to make testing with Laravel a bit easier.

```PHP
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\Traits\Laravel\FakeRequests;

class SomeTest extends TestCase
{
    use FakeRequests;

    /**
     * @test
     */
    public function some_test()
    {
        $handler = $this->fakeRequests();
        // Add expectations to the handler
    }
}
```

In this example, the `fakeRequests` method created the `MockHandler` for you. It will also bind it to the `ClientFactory` and bind the `ClientFactory` instance to the IOC. If you resolve the `ClientFactory` out of the IOC in you code, this trait will allow you to easily use the `MockHandler` in all of you guzzle client instances.

Commit message:

Added the ability to allow unexpected calls

README.md, after:

![](https://travis-ci.org/jshayes/fake-requests.svg?branch=master)

# fake-requests
A simple package to make testing with guzzle easier

## Basic usage
You can register expected calls to the `MockHandler`. The mock handler has methods for each http request type.

```PHP
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\MockHandler;
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\ClientFactory;

public function test()
{
    $factory = new ClientFactory();
    $factory->setHandler($mockHandler = new MockHandler());

    $mockHandler->get('/get-request');
    $mockHandler->post('/post-request');

    $factory->make()->get('/get-request');
    $factory->make()->post('/post-request');
}
```

This simple example creates two expectations. The first is a `GET` request with the URL path of `/get-request`. The second is a `POST` request with a URL path of `/post-request`. The client is then resolved out of the factory, and `GET` and `POST` requests are made for each expectation.

The `ClientFactory` can be used to resolve guzzle client instances. You can bind a handler to the factory so that when it resolves the guzzle client it will swap out the default handler with the one that you have specified. It will also keep the registered middleware intact in the case that you are using the `HandlerStack`.

Once an expectation is met, it is removed from the handler. So if you make the same request twice you have to add two separate expectations.

You can also use the following alternative syntax
```PHP
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\MockHandler;
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\ClientFactory;

public function test()
{
    $factory = new ClientFactory();
    $factory->setHandler($mockHandler = new MockHandler());

    $mockHandler->expects('get', '/get-request');
    $mockHandler->expects('post', '/post-request');

    $factory->make()->get('/get-request');
    $factory->make()->post('/post-request');
}
```

This example sets up the same expectations as the example above.

You can also specify hosts in the uri, rather than just the path. This can allow you to ensure the correct service is being hit in the case that you talk to more than one remote service.
```PHP
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\MockHandler;
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\ClientFactory;

public function test()
{
    $factory = new ClientFactory();
    $factory->setHandler($mockHandler = new MockHandler());

    $mockHandler->expects('get', 'https://test.dev/get-request');

    $factory->make()->get('https://test.dev/get-request');
}
```

## Inspecting the request
If you need to make assertions on the request that created, or the options that are provided, you can use the `inspectRequest` method. This method receives an instance of `\Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface` as the first parameter.
```PHP
$mockHandler->get('/test')->inspectRequest(function (RequestInterface $request, array $options) {
    // Make assertions on the request or options here
});
```

Alternatively, you can use the `getRequest` method to get the request off the `RequestHandler` after it has been handled. This request is an instance of `\JSHayes\FakeRequests\Request`, which is a decorator around the `\Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface`. This decorator exposes a few assertion helper functions.
```PHP
$expectation = $mockHandler->get('/test');
$factory->make()->get('/get-request');
$request = $expectation->getRequest();
$request->assertBodyEquals('');
```

Note that the request is null until one has been handled by the handler.

## Customizing the response
There are a few ways to create a custom response for each expectation. When you create a custom response, that response is what will be returned to the guzzle client when the request expectation is met. The three ways to customize the response are as follows.

The first method is by passing in the parameters for the request. The first parameter is the status code. The second is the body of the response. The third is the array of headers to add to the response.
```PHP
$mockHandler->get('/test')->respondWith(200, 'body', ['header' => 'value]);
```

The second method is by creating a request that implements `\Psr\Http\Message\ResponseInterface`.
```PHP
$mockHandler->get('/test')->respondWith(new Response(200, ['header' => 'value'], 'body'));
```

The third method is by passing a callback to `respondWith`. This callback will receive an instance of `\JSHayes\FakeRequests\ResponseBuilder`
```PHP
$mockHandler->get('/test')->respondWith(function (ResponseBuilder $builder) {
    $builder->status(200);
    $builder->body('body');
    $builder->headers(['header' => 'values']);
});
```

## Controlling when a handler should be handled
If you would like more control over when a RequestHandler handles a given request, you can use the `when` method. This method receives an instance of `\Psr\Http\Message\RequestInterface` as the first parameter.

```PHP
$mockHandler->get('/test')->when(function (RequestInterface $request, array $options) {
    return true;
});
```

The handler will only handle the request when the method and uri match, and when the `when` callback returns true.

## Allowing Unexpected Calls
Sometimes you might want the `MockHandler` to not error when it receives calls to endpoint that it did not expect calls to. In this case you can use the `allowUnexpectedCalls` method on the `MockHandler`

```PHP
$mockHandler->allowUnexpectedCalls();
$client->get('/test');
```

In this example the `GET` request to `/test` will respond with a generic 200 response.

## Testing with Laravel
This package also comes with a trait to make testing with Laravel a bit easier.

```PHP
use JSHayes\FakeRequests\Traits\Laravel\FakeRequests;

class SomeTest extends TestCase
{
    use FakeRequests;

    /**
     * @test
     */
    public function some_test()
    {
        $handler = $this->fakeRequests();
        // Add expectations to the handler
    }
}
```

In this example, the `fakeRequests` method created the `MockHandler` for you. It will also bind it to the `ClientFactory` and bind the `ClientFactory` instance to the IOC. If you resolve the `ClientFactory` out of the IOC in you code, this trait will allow you to easily use the `MockHandler` in all of you guzzle client instances.
